# Tabs
Tabs provide a way to navigate between panels that display related content without leaving the page.

## Overview
Tabs are useful for displaying related content in a compact space, like within [Modals](/libs/design/modal/README.md) or [Cards](/libs/design/card/README.md). They allow users to switch between sections without navigating away from the current view.

## Usage

### Within a standalone component
To use tabs in a standalone component, import `DAFF_TABS_COMPONENTS` directly into your custom component:

```ts
import { DAFF_TABS_COMPONENTS } from '@daffodil/design/tabs';

@Component({
  selector: 'custom-component',
  templateUrl: './custom-component.component.html',
  imports: [
    DAFF_TABS_COMPONENTS,
  ],
})
export class CustomComponent {}
```

## Anatomy
`<daff-tabs>` is composed of the following elements:

**Tab**\
Represents a single tab in a tablist and is used to group the label of a tab panel and the tab panel together. Use the `<daff-tab>` selector.

**Tab label**\
The clicakble label that activates its corresponding tab panel. Labels can contain text, icons, or both. Use the `<daff-tab-label>` selector.

**Icon**\
Use the `[daffPrefix]` or `[daffSuffix]` directive to add a decorative icon before or after the label text. This can be used to provide quick visual cues about the tab’s purpose.

**Tab panel**\
The content area displayed when a tab is active. Use the `<daff-tab-panel>` selector.

## Link mode
Tabs in link mode replace the tab buttons with anchors, allowing the selected tab to be connected to a URL.

By default, the current URL and `tab` query param will be used. These can be overriden with the `url` and `queryParam` inputs, respectively.

```html
<daff-tabs [linkMode]="true">
</daff-tabs>
```

## Accessbility
Tabs follow the [Tabs WAI-ARIA design pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/), using `tablist`, `tab`, and `tabpanel` elements with the appropriate roles and integrated keyboard interactions.

Each `<daff-tab>` is automatically assigned a unique `id`. This id is referenced by the corresponding `<daff-tab-panel>` via its `aria-labelledby` attribute, ensuring the panel is associated with its label. You can override the autogenerated `id` by setting a custom `id` on `<daff-tab>`:

```html
<daff-tab id="custom tab id">
</daff-tab>
```

### Best practices
To ensure full accessibility compliance with the WAI-ARIA design pattern:

- A meaningful `aria-label` should be set on `<daff-tabs>` using the `aria-label` attribute.

```html
<daff-tabs aria-label="Custom aria label">
</daff-tabs>
```

### Keyboard interactions
| Key | Action |
| --- | ------ |
| `Left Arrow` |  Moves focus and activates the previous tab. If focus is on the first tab, focus moves to the last tab. |
| `Right Arrow` |  Moves focus and activates the next tab. If focus is on the last tab, focus moves to the first tab. |
| `Home` |  Moves focus and activates the first tab. |
| `End` |  Moves focus and activates the last tab. |
