# Media gallery
A media gallery displays a group of thumbnails in a gallery format, allowing users to preview and select different media.

## Overview
Use a media gallery to showcase multiple images or other media related to a single product or topic. Thumbnails are interactive and update the primary display when selected.

<design-land-example-viewer-container example="basic-media-gallery"></design-land-example-viewer-container>

## Usage

### Within a standalone component
To use media gallery in a standalone component, import `DAFF_MEDIA_GALLERY_COMPONENTS` into your custom component:

```ts
import { DAFF_MEDIA_GALLERY_COMPONENTS } from '@daffodil/design/media-gallery';

@Component({
  selector: 'custom-component',
  templateUrl: './custom-component.component.html',
  imports: [
    DAFF_MEDIA_GALLERY_COMPONENTS,
  ],
})
export class CustomComponent {}
```

### Within a module (deprecated)
To use media gallery in a module, import `DaffMediaGalleryModule` into your custom module:

```ts
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { DaffMediaGalleryModule } from '@daffodil/design/media-gallery';
import { CustomComponent } from './custom.component';

@NgModule({
	declarations: [
    CustomComponent,
  ],
  exports: [
    CustomComponent,
  ],
  imports: [
    DaffMediaGalleryModule,
  ],
})
export class CustomComponentModule { }
```

> This method is deprecated. It's recommended to update all custom components to standalone.

## Anatomy
Use the `[daffThumbnail]` **structural directive** to define a thumbnail in the gallery. Thumbnails can contain any content type, not just images.

```html
<daff-media-gallery>
  <ng-template daffThumbnail thumbnailSrc="/thumbnail-path.jpg" label="Your description">
    <daff-image src="/image-path.jpg" alt="Your description" width="500" height="500"></daff-image>
  </ng-template>
</daff-media-gallery>
```

- `thumbnailSrc` is used for the preview image rendered in the thumbnail strip.
- The content inside the template will be shown as the primary view when selected.
- You must include the full content for each thumbnail inside the template, even if it appears to duplicate the thumbnail image since this is what renders in the main display area when selected.
- Always provide an accessible label for a thumbnail using `label`.
- The `isVideo` property can be used to display a video icon on the thumbnail.
- The first thumbnail is selected by default.

> Never use `[daffThumbnail]` as a standalone element. It must be placed within a `<daff-media-gallery>`. 

<design-land-example-viewer-container example="media-gallery-with-video"></design-land-example-viewer-container>


## Aspect ratio
Use a consistent aspect ratio across all content to avoid layout shifts. Mismatched content sizes can cause the primary content area to shift as different thumbnails are selected.

Thumbnails are rendered in a square by default, so a 1:1 ratio is recommended, but not required since thumbnails are automatically centered horizontally and vertically.

<design-land-example-viewer-container example="mismatched-sizes-media-gallery"></design-land-example-viewer-container>

## Accessibility
- Always provide an accessible label for each thumbnail using the `label` attribute.
- Each thumbnail is rendered as a button with an autogenerated `aria-controls` value that matches the `id` of the content container displayed when the thumbnail is selected.
- These `id` values are autogenerated but can be overridden by providing a custom id to the `<daff-media-gallery>` element.